to his family and friends Jeanne Bristow
was an unassuming hard-working hobby
farmer but his life was a facade in
truth Bristow was a monster consumed
with thoughts of depravity the 54 year
old devised an evil plan to lure a young
female to his remote South Australian
property and keep her as his hostage his
scheme was as meticulous as it was
wicked except for one thing he picked
the wrong target the ingenuity and will
to live of the now 26 year old Belgian
backpacker Devine Arkin's meant when bad
collided with good there would only be
one winner the end of a hot summer's day
in a paddock in remote South Australia
please help look for me from an isolated
Pig shed a chilling cry for help
I've been kidnapped in South Australia
skeltal run away distressed messages
from a terrified backpacker he we chased
me down shoots me that would travel
around the world to her friends and her
distraught family in Belgium the message
was I'm kidnapped please I'm on the farm
somewhere it drives a red peak a red
pickup I'm scared
has a gun will shoot
contact the police and mom I'm so far
away from her and I couldn't I didn't
really know where she is
shackled and alone Devane Atkins risked
it all to break out of her chains to
grab her one fleeting chance to tell
whoever was listening she was in the
worst kind of trouble my first thought
was just to send a message for help I
didn't really know where I was
where should go to who to trust who did
you send these messages to everyone who
was online a cow farm frosty fairies
tonight inside the police investigation
that captured a monster how would you
describe devane's actions throughout
this courageous very courageous
and this is the kidnapper Jean Charles
Bristow now a prisoner himself he is
despised especially by his 22 year old
son David Bristow who helped bring him
to justice if you had an opportunity to
say something to him
you get what you deserve
please please I am so afraid hewlet is a
typical Belgian town
clean charming and a little sleepy not a
place to satisfy the adventurous spirit
of Devine Arkin's a small-town girl who
set out to see the big wide world so
define why was Australia on the map why
did you want to come here I really
wanted to see the wildlife in the nature
just seemed like an amazing country to
visit to go backpacking by her early 20s
Devane was already a seasoned traveler
who ticked off South Africa Guatemala
and China but Australia was to be the
big one and so when she arrived here at
the end of 2016 the 24 year old had a
year's working visa in her pocket and
the promise of a trip of a lifetime
do you remember the emotion you were
feeling when you booked your ticket to
come to Australia I was feeling quite
nervous but also very excited to finally
go did you consider Australia to be a
safe place to visit yes yes I know there
were some dangerous animals jellyfish or
crocodiles but I felt like it was a safe
place to go to
[Music]
the first two months were crammed with
new experiences and landscapes a world
away from Belgium flooring pink leg from
Sydney Devane hid itself taking in
Melbourne and Tasmania by now she had
set her mind on getting work in the bush
a visa requirement to allow her to
stretch her trip for an extra year and
so she headed to Adelaide I wanted to do
my amount of days that you needed to get
a second year visa so I felt like in
Adelaide there was a good opportunity to
find some work devane's next step
while not uncommon would be thankful she
turned to the internet to help in her
job hunt I wanted really to find
something so now I just posted my own at
looking for work and then finally had a
response to it
would you be interested in rearing baby
calves on a farm 2.5 hours from Adelaide
just as she was getting desperate it was
the office she'd been hoping for
supposedly from a network of farms that
employed foreign backpackers my name is
Max and we will be working on one of
many farms in South Australia owned by a
company called Genesis Inc
I did ask questions to get more
information did you get an impression
from him that there had been a lot of
female workers on the phone he spoke
about another French girl who's recently
going to another farm so that makes me
feel a bit more reassured like okay
there's other people doing this job just
like me what was your reaction when you
heard she was going to this remote farm
first reaction is congratulations girls
because that's what you are always
looking for since meeting in China three
years ago
Aiko Wang and Devine Arkin's have
remained close friends echo was on her
own backpacking adventure fruit picking
in Far North Queensland when she heard
that Devine had finally found some work
you will be fine thousands of
backpackers they are doing the same job
and you will be fine that really happy
for her and that's what you told her
you'll be fine yes yes but the man who
called himself max was in fact 54 year
old hobby farmer Jane
Charles Bristow he was also a Fanta cyst
and a liar with a secret
plan to kidnap and sexually abuse a
backpacker and devein Arkin's was about
to fall into his trap this was the only
thing I was gonna do alone finding a job
and then it goes wrong how does that
make you feel it's like he cannot even
do one thing alone or you're unsafe so
no it doesn't feel good right no clearly
upset yeah yeah yeah what is that do you
think that upsets you about that mmm I
think it is because I always make sure
that that I had someone with me I always
made sure that I wasn't alone
I was always careful and just unlucky to
meet a person like that and yeah coming
out walking into a trap
to now know that was all a fabrication
yes there were no other female workers
do you have any sense
couldn't can you look back and go oh he
was lying to me and held hostage in
she must have been absolutely terrified
I was like stop moving my struggling and
he put something against my face Robert
I thought it was young
next on 60 minutes on the morning of
Thursday February the 9th 2017 Devine
Arkin's had checked out of her hostel
and was waiting at a bus stop in central
Adelaide he told me I could take a bus
to Murray Bridge so I looked it up and
it seemed fine to me it was not that far
and it was easy to go there they told me
that he would pick me up at the bus
station so I just had to look for the
bus get there and that would be it keen
to stop the next big chapter of her
Australian adventure Devine traveled out
of Adelaide an hour south to Murray
Bridge
and sure enough the man calling himself
max was waiting to pick her up so you
made him at the bus stop
yeah it was a very first impression he
just looked you know like like a farmer
and working clothes hard-working man
[Music]
the pier set off on a long drive the
farmer was chatty and friendly as they
headed down quiet roads through the
expanse of the South Australian
countryside
what is it like to meet resistance
it's kind of bit weird just knowing that
this was like the road to the place for
you I have something horrible happening
[Music]
Jeanne Bristow had carefully planned the
run to the pig shed on his hobby farm on
the edge of many need the direct route
which would involve a drive through town
would have taken less than an hour
instead Bristow went on a long drawn-out
journey designed to disorientate and
deceive to make Devine field she was
heading into complete isolation a
two-hour drive down the back roads that
took in two ferry crossings
[Music]
you drive and drive and drive and then
you get to the property paint the
picture for me what is it that you see
so we drove to a fence drove up went to
another fence like a lot of parts of the
farm yeah and then we got to this shit
and he was still explaining this is
where you raise the calls where you will
feed them he sounds like a very good
liar
yes yes I was very surprised didn't
expect anything to happen
[Music]
when Devine finally arrived at the pig
shed she felt she was in the middle of
nowhere just as Jean Bristow had
engineered it but the center of Menengai
and the town's police station was just
over a kilometer away
Bristow's house where his wife son and
son's girlfriend were on the day was
hidden behind some trees but still just
350 meters away of course Devine did not
know help was so close at hand
nor could she know that very soon she
would desperately need it
so what happened they didn't you wanted
to make sure that I wasn't doing any of
the trucks because he told me he had
problems before you wanted to look for
needle marks check your feet for needle
marks it was a bizarre demand from her
new employer but as puzzled as she was
Devane thought it best to do as he asked
so he was like can I see your arms they
would put the needles there or on your
leg so he wanted to look there was he
threatening in that moment to you know
he stayed very calm very friendly didn't
really change until the very last moment
[Music]
this is the awful scene that confronted
Devane that day a filthy Pig shed along
with animal feces and plenty of flies in
the corner an old broken-down fridge
under sofa bed and this is where Bristow
intended to keep his prisoner the
backpacker forced to become his
plaything but in those early moments
Bristow keeps up the charade that he
must check Devine for drug use and so he
asks her to lie face down on the sofa
bed so he can inspect the soles of her
feet he was really looking at my feet
for a while and he and suddenly you just
got on my back
stop moving stay still try to grab my
arms to put around my back but I
wouldn't let him out struggling and I
was like what's going on no it's gonna
be happening and then I was like no I
felt very very strong so I felt like I I
could really overpower like you can get
away but they
Bristow tells Devane he has a gun and he
will use it he puts something against my
back and said it was a good I thought it
was it was over so then I gave up
because I thought if I keep struggling
he would just shoot me and so I stopped
we clearly believed him yes yes I was
not gonna take any chances you know if
you don't wanna die somewhere not like
that you know not there Bristow
first used cable ties then chains to
bind to veins wrists and chains to
shackle both her legs he stripped her
naked sexually abused her and threatened
to kill her if she tried to escape in
the beginning is very young like
commanding like when I walk in here
you'll be always undressed you don't put
on anything anymore
that I'll have to be kind don't run away
or he would find me and shoot me with
the gun you must have been absolutely
terrified I mean shocked obviously but
terrified - yeah I was just stuck there
and I thought to take her out for
someone to notice I was gone or even to
find me so I was like I'm not getting
out of here I thought this is this is it
this is where I'm gonna die and
adding to the physical threat gene
Bristow played elaborate mind games
telling Devane she was now the property
of a criminal gang the trafficked young
women you would tell me that he was in
an organization and there were other
people and that they are watching him
and what was this organization well he
was working for a boss who would approve
girls and then ship them to Sydney on or
Melbourne for prostitution he told her
not to trust anyone that even the police
were in on us when you heard that what
did you think you don't have any
anything to say you lose everything your
clothes your freedom your family your
friends you feel very very powerless and
tiny you're stuck
it seems like that his feelings are
still very raw you think it's a poor
important that that you have your
freedom and then when someone just takes
everything away and it's a very hard
how close was your relationship with
your dad prior to this very close yeah
like we we did nice things together you
know hey was he dead yeah someone that I
I always looked up to David Bristow and
girlfriend Shane were both at home on
the farm that day along with his mum Jan
all were oblivious to the horror taking
place in their own backyard
will you both know that said can you
imagine what that girl went through it
would be horrifying
absolutely you'd fear for your life
you'd fear for your safety you tree for
everything you wouldn't know what to do
what I'd ever be in that situation did
you have any idea any inkling that there
was somebody in that shed no everything
seemed fine everything was normal
coming up how did you connect seeing
that hook and thinking or maybe this can
help me or anyone see devane's messages
so you were giving out as much
information yes
I didn't really know where she's and can
she outsmart the monster just put on the
chains again so you change yourself back
up yeah that's next on 60 minutes
young backpacker
devayne Atkins is being held captive in
a filthy Pig shed in a paddock in South
Australia she thinks she's in the middle
of nowhere a stranger in a strange land
shackled in Chains and subjected to
violence like you're kind of in a coma
you know you you can hear everything and
feel but you cannot do anything how did
long did you think that was going to go
on for I thought it would take months
no one knows she's kidnapped and there's
no hope of escape until her captor opens
the door of the broken-down fridge he's
looking to remove anything Devine might
use to get away in that moment she spots
something he doesn't
little metal hooks that could be a
lifeline so in this terrible scenario
this awful bleak situation in the middle
of nowhere
the fridge door opens and you see
something in the fridge how did you
connect seeing that hook and thinking or
maybe this can help me there was nothing
else he took my keys my phone and I was
like maybe that's it maybe I can use it
Jeanne Bristow has used pliers to
tighten the shackles making them
impossible to remove by hand if she can
get to the hooks devine hopes she can
use them as a tool to get free by now
she's chained by one arm and one leg
as darkness falls Bristow leaves the
shed and Devine makes her move not
knowing when he might return I was so
scared so nervous
as soon as I started I wanted to move as
fast as I could Sarah just put the hook
in no and chest on the Army was quite
easy just no twisting I was like you
know would then on my leg didn't move at
all like oh no what now you know but I
didn't had any other options so I just
keep trying and pushing harder harder
and there was no other way so I just
kept trying and the gun looser and
looser as well so finally yeah it I was
free you know I was like oh it works now
free does she run does she hide Devine
decides not to make a run for it
instead she grabs the one advantage she
has Bristow has made a critical error by
failing to look for the laptop and Wi-Fi
stick hidden in her bag the computer
fires up suddenly she's online it works
I was like it's all working and going
fast put the light down of my laptop and
send messages
I hope messages I have been kidnapped in
South Australia I'm on the farm
somewhere I described the road
I crossed went from Mira bridge cross
two ferries so you were giving out as
much information yes yes told him I was
taking in a red pickup car and I'm very
scared to run off but he has a gun
please
take the podium mom the messages fired
out around the world to family and
friends including fellow backpacker eco
Wang who was flicking through her phone
in Far North Queensland it just you know
some horrible words like police helped
me to call the police and I was
kidnapped with the threat of devane's
kidnapper returning at any moment the
two friends frantically messaged each
other I just couldn't imagine what might
happen to her but I knew it might be
something really not good and she's
she's really helpless yeah that's that's
that's what I feel that moment you were
terrified for her yes and desperate I
guess you just want to help so much and
you can't I'm so far away from her and I
coulda that I didn't really know where
she is
these are the messages Devane and Echo
sent each other that night before the
connection suddenly failed when the
signal got lost just put everything back
as fast as I could in them he was
getting very dark so I didn't take any
chances to run so just put on the chains
again so you change yourself back up
yeah holding herself back in the
clutches of her sadistic captor took
incredible courage an extraordinary
calculated move and as she promised her
desperate friend Echo raised the alarm
she said she was gonna call the police
so I knew that it's out there they know
it they gotta start to search that now I
just have to hopefully find me in
Belgium devane's messages had reached
her now stricken family and her stepdad
Luke did you feel having read those
words that this was a race against time
the time is of the essence yes the first
thought who come to us how long was he
already kidnapped how many time do we
have left how critical was the
information that Devane managed to get
out very critical the fact that she'd
been abducted the fact that she'd gone
through Marie bridge on a couple of
ferries we wouldn't be able to start
anything without her being able to make
contact with someone for detective
Superintendent Mark Weissach it was
immediately clear the Devine was in
danger how quickly did police act on
that information within 10 minutes they
actually asked for a triangulation to to
commence within 10 minutes within 10
minutes because we have this terminology
you know like when the balloon goes up
it's all in and that's what the response
was
why was time of the essence in this case
well we had great fears for his safety I
also appeal to that person who may be
holding Devine against her will it was
only a matter of time before we identify
here you are
June Bristow didn't know us but as
Devine was being driven to the pig shed
her phone had been transmitting signals
picked up by nearby phone towers by
triangulating that data police were able
to identify a more specific area in
which to search we received information
that it sought Meninga and south of
Manila it just shows that yes what she's
saying you know is right and and the
clues that she's given all adds up to
the fact there she's in this area
somewhere so it's a matter of finding it
in the quiet town of Meninga a major
manhunt was soon underway by police on
the ground and in the air that night I
heard planes flying over and I was I was
hoping they were police planes and they
would have infrared or something I don't
know this then in the morning again
there were planes flying over that's
what made him panic by 2:00 p.m. on her
second day of captivity a car fitting
devane's description was spotted in a
paddock hidden under a tree they watched
as Jeanne Bristow got in and drove into
town so the air wing saw a red ute
vicinity of the farm and radioed that
down to patrol that actually pulled the
ute over was being driven by Jeanne
Bristow and I just had a chat with him
to find out who he was and took his
details and took a photo of him these
were the photos taken in the moments
jeanne Bristow was pulled over it was a
routine stop
police had no reason to hold him but it
was enough to rattle Bristow who raced
back to the shed and he came back and
they're police everywhere we gotta go he
told me to put on my Cruz took my
backpack with me and we had to run out
of the shirt he was panicking he was
very scared coming up he just told me
not to trust anyone confused and alone
why she fears the police that must have
been terrifying
yes see all these police coming at you
and a son's anger nothing can forgive
that playful fall by his own father
when someone has been so normal and then
this happens or blows him off that's
next on 60 minutes
freed from her chains and bundled into
the back of her kidnappers
backpacker devayne Hawkins has no idea
whether she will live or die until
Jeanne Bristow drops her here at a motel
in Murray Bridge the town in which they
first met when Jen Bristow dropped you
at the hotel did he give you any
instructions did he tell you what to say
or what to do he just told me to get on
the bus go to the airport to wear a cap
lay low and to just go home did you go
to police at that point no you didn't
trust anyone just I was very scared
brainwashed and alone Devine still
believes she's in grave danger
eventually though hunger gets the better
of her and she finally decides to leave
the motel and go out in search of a cafe
all the while fearing that she will
again be picked up by someone from
Bristow's sex trafficking ring as she
starts to head back she's spotted by an
off-duty policeman and he calls out her
name suddenly they were coming cars from
everywhere people and was surrounded at
police and then I kind of panicked cuz I
couldn't do anything anymore I couldn't
go anywhere I'm like oof I'm done
it's only at the police station that
Devine finally feels safe
back in Belgium Devine stepfather Luke
gets word the family has been praying
for and suddenly came the news it's her
it's her we found her and then we we
were so joyful she's safe we are going
to take her to our police station how
would you describe that level of relief
after so much anguish and concern we
help each other that's everyone in the
house we really helped each other as we
cried we we were relieved
we couldn't speak to the vignette but we
knew she was in good hands
as the vein is picked up Jayne Bristow
is furiously trying to cover his tracks
he heads home shaves his head and tries
to dispose of the crime scene evidence
the next morning police raid the farm
and arrest him much to the shock of his
family my mum rang me and just told me
what had happened he'd been arrested for
kidnapping and rape of the building
backpack and then there was police
everywhere
not your typical Saturday by now
Bristow's son David he is coming to
terms with the reality that his father
is a monster what happens in that moment
do you stop loving this person yes right
away really mm-hmm
he could have ended up being a murder
and could have ended up being anything
and that's that's the scary part because
I don't know if this has happened once
twice ten times no one knows when when
someone like that in your life has been
so normal and nothing has seemed out of
the play out of the ordinary and then
this happens it be really open but blows
your mind and just it makes you wonder
has it happened before
as police pored over the farm they
assembled an overwhelming body of
evidence the chains used to shackle
devine were found in a well and her
mobile phone in a water tank a fake gun
bought on ebay a few weeks before the
kidnapping was discarded in a paddock
and overwhelming DNA evidence was
recovered from the pig shed where Devine
was kept prisoner it's pretty compelling
for a court case when you can recover
things that actually match the victims
story you know things like the manacles
over there who change the fake gun it
all goes to show the court this was what
was used for David Bristow it was the
chains custom-made into manacles that
revealed the true horror of his father's
deeds
there were chains and bolts and D
shackles and all sorts of stuff that had
been constructed and it it's not
something that you'd make in five
minutes it's something that has been
planned and it's it to me as a farmer
I've never seen a use for something like
that so made me realize that it's real
it's real yeah it's horrifying isn't it
yeah very
in the two years since the kidnapping
Jean Bristow has never shown a shred of
remorse to the anger of his son David
and his girlfriend shown just very much
pointing the finger at everyone else
besides himself so to this day he won't
admit to you or the rest of the family
that he did this he is a hundred percent
thinks he's innocent he just keeps
making excuses he first he started off
with she wasn't there and I needed help
because David wouldn't help me the
bizarre claims are contained in a series
of letters Jeanne Bristow sent to his
son from his prison cell I want to
reassure you both that I'm not guilty of
anything
they've only got a pack of lies to go on
from the woman claiming to be the victim
she's doing it for the money
would you have more respect for him if
he actually told you the truth yes I
think I would if he came if he came out
and said that he was guilty and earned
up to it I would have more respect for
him do you think you'd be able to find
in your heart to forgive him no nothing
can forgive that it took a huge amount
of courage for David Bristow to give
evidence a court appearance that saw him
discredit his father's claim that he
hired Devine to help him on the farm
when you saw him in the courtroom what
did you think of him in that moment I
was disgusted the any word I can use
disgustin
helped by his own sons evidence against
him last month Jean Bristow was
sentenced to 18 years in jail he won't
be eligible for parole until 2032 and
men most likely sent back to his native
Britain when you learned of the outcome
of the actual court case that Jane was
convicted and now sentenced what was
your reaction to that all that because
I'll never get the same memory I'm glad
that I'm as I have to look at him again
is that a hard thing to say a hard thing
to feel it is it is quite hard something
that I think about Lots but never really
talked her we had it I mean this whole
incident represents a massive loss in
your life doesn't yeah he's dead to me
he's dead to you yes Devine to had the
ordeal of facing Bristow one more time
at trial what was it like to see
somebody who at one time in your life
was so powerful and so frightening to be
so pathetic in the end I had to look
twice like is that him because he was
very skinny and he looks very terrible
and awful so when I saw him I was like
this is what you deserve you should feel
awful
this is justice yeah coming up Friends
Reunited
and Devine places her future do you have
the sounds that go with the moves
it wasn't very bright nothing no he
wasn't prepared I guess for me in the
two years since she escaped the horror
of the pig shed in South Australia
Devine Arkin's has been haunted by
flashbacks and nightmares I couldn't go
in the dark I couldn't walk alone I
tried to walk the dog alone then when I
couldn't I cried and then one day I
could and I felt so like I can walk the
dog but I was still looking over my
shoulders and I had to like learn
everything again do everything again for
the first time day by day
Devane is fighting back against her
fears she's taking up self-defense
classes learning skills to disarm a
would-be attacker determined that never
again will she be the victim so you've
got the moves yeah yeah do you have the
sounds that go with the moves oh we
don't really do karate okay food was
more like boxing and disarming you're
being prepared yeah
what is it like to see the old devayne
coming back if not fully back yet
Cummings is not fully bad kid but we can
laugh again but there is something
broken and if something is broken it has
sharp edges those edges will become
round one day it will be good but not
not the same anymore no one has the
right to do that to someone else
no no one no one eco Wang was devane's
lifeline when she needed her most
ever since davines been hoping for this
moment the chance to thank echo in
person thank you
what's it like to see each other yes it
is still cannot believe it I'm exploding
I don't know you're exploding you're
emotional yeah oh I felt so alone that
moment and you are like the only one
corresponding in for me you're like my
Savior you know I'm always a good friend
there for you
together again with plenty of catching
up to do the backpackers who have
experienced the very best and the very
worst of Australia echo played such a
big part in this when you think of echo
in what way do you think about her feel
like a hero for me like she helped me
she was there for me she took action you
know if you hadn't got the message out
Devane if no-one knew you were there
what do you think this man would have
done to you yeah I thought he would kill
me and I would die dear we feel kind of
bit ashamed in the beginning because you
let someone trick you and that someone
fool you did you feel reassured though
by the police and by your parents that
they knew it wasn't your fault that this
was a monster and he upon you you had to
tell me a few times you know yeah I'm
glad they got me true dad because it's
very hard
[Music]
delay knock ins obvious strength was
there right from the terrifying start
it took sheer bravery and ingenuity for
this young backpacker to seize the
moment to ultimately defeat her attacker
to win her freedom
she did a good job to unshackle herself
and to send the message in us it was an
act of courage was yes and smart very
smart very smart is instinctive it's
courageous it's all in one I think
really smart really clever you've heard
her speak about this and you've heard
her talk about initially being ashamed
of her own role you know that somehow
she thought she should have not been in
that position well how do you feel when
you hear that
no no toughen you didn't do it wrong you
did it right he was the one who did it
wrong he was the one to be ashamed of
not you you must be proud we are proud
of you of what you did of what you are
[Music]
do you feel like you did outsmart this
man yeah it just worked and felt good
that you couldn't get away
[Music]
I feel very very lucky how everything
worked out I feel so so very lucky he
wasn't prepared I guess for me doing
something for you baiting him yeah hello
I'm Tara brown thanks for watching to
keep up with the latest from 60 minutes
Australia make sure you subscribe to our
Channel
you can also download the 9 now app for
full episodes and other exclusive 60
minutes content